README.rst, before:

Ona Platform
=================

Collect, Analyze and Share Data!

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/onaio/onadata.svg?branch=master
  :target: https://travis-ci.org/onaio/onadata

About
-----

Ona is derived from the excellent `formhub <http://github.com/SEL-Columbia/formhub>`_ platform developed by the Sustainable Engineering Lab at Columbia University.

Installation
------------

See the `installation documentation <https://api.ona.io/static/docs/install.html>`_.

Docker
------

Install `Docker <https://www.docker.com/get-docker>`_ and `Docker Compose <https://docs.docker.com/compose/>`_.

.. code-block:: sh

    docker-compose up

    # create super user
    # -----------------
    docker exec -it onadata_web_1 bash

    # activate virtual envirenment
    source /srv/.virtualenv/bin/activate

    python manage.py createsuperuser

It should be accessible via http://localhost:8000. The settings are in
`onadata/settings/docker.py <onadata/settings/docker.py>`_.

On registration check the console for the activation links, the default email
backend is ``django.core.mail.backends.console.EmailBackend``. See
`Django Docs <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.11/topics/email/>`_ for details.

Contributing
------------

If you would like to contribute code please read
`Contributing Code to Ona Data <https://github.com/onaio/onadata/wiki/Contributing-Code-to-OnaData>`_.

Edit top level requirements in the file `requirements/base.in <requirements/base.in>`_. Use
 `pip-compile <https://github.com/nvie/pip-tools>`_ to update `requirements/base.pip <requirements/base.pip>`_.
 You will need to update `requirements.pip` and set `lxml==3.6.0`, for some unknown reason `pip-compile` seems to
 pick a lower version of lxml when `openpyxl` requires `lxml>=3.3.4`.

.. code-block:: sh

    pip-compile --output-file requirements/base.pip requirements/base.in

Code Structure
--------------

* **api** - This app provides the API functionality mostly made up of viewsets

* **logger** - This app serves XForms to and receives submissions from
  ODK Collect and Enketo.

* **viewer** - This app provides a csv and xls export of the data stored in
  logger. This app uses a data dictionary as produced by pyxform. It also
  provides a map and single survey view.

* **main** - This app is the glue that brings logger and viewer
  together.

Localization
------------

To generate a locale from scratch (ex. Spanish)

.. code-block:: sh

    django-admin.py makemessages -l es -e py,html,email,txt ;
    for app in {main,viewer} ; do cd onadata/apps/${app} && django-admin.py makemessages -d djangojs -l es && cd - ; done

To update PO files

.. code-block:: sh

    django-admin.py makemessages -a ;
    for app in {main,viewer} ; do cd onadata/apps/${app} && django-admin.py makemessages -d djangojs -a && cd - ; done

To compile MO files and update live translations

.. code-block:: sh

    django-admin.py compilemessages ;
    for app in {main,viewer} ; do cd onadata/apps/${app} && django-admin.py compilemessages && cd - ; done

Api Documentation
-----------------

Generate the API documentation and serve via Django using:

.. code-block:: sh

    cd docs
    make html
    python manage.py collectstatic

Generate sphinx docs for new code using
`autodoc <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/invocation.html#invocation-of-sphinx-apidoc>`_.

Run sphinx in autobuild mode using:

.. code-block:: sh

    sphinx-autobuild docs docs/_build/html

Requires sphinx-autobuild, install with ``pip install sphinx-autobuild``.


Django Debug Toolbar
--------------------

* `$ pip install django-debug-toolbar`
* Use/see `onadata/settings/debug_toolbar_settings/py`
* Access api endpoint on the browser and use `.debug` as the format extension e.g `/api/v1/projects.debug`

Upgrading existing installation to django 1.9+
----------------------------------------------

**Requirements**

* Postgres 9.4 or higher
* xcode-select version 2343 or higher

**Upgrading from a pervious Ona setup**
Ensure you upgrade all your pip requirements using the following command:

.. code-block:: sh

    pip install -r requirements/base.pip

Fake initial migration of `guardian`, `django_digest`, `registration`. Migrate `contenttypes` app first.

.. code-block:: sh

    python manage.py migrate contenttypes
    python manage.py migrate --fake-initial django_digest
    python manage.py migrate --fake-initial guardian
    python manage.py migrate --fake-initial registration
    python manage.py migrate


**Major django changes affecting Ona**
* The DATABASES settings key depricates the use of the *autocommit* setting in the *OPTIONS* dictionary.

Commit message:

Hosting-apps.md: update tutorials

README.rst, after:

Ona Platform
=================

Collect, Analyze and Share Data!

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/onaio/onadata.svg?branch=master
  :target: https://travis-ci.org/onaio/onadata

About
-----

Ona is derived from the excellent `formhub <http://github.com/SEL-Columbia/formhub>`_ platform developed by the Sustainable Engineering Lab at Columbia University.

Installation
------------

See the `installation documentation <https://api.ona.io/static/docs/install.html>`_ and `Hosting on Docker in Production environment <https://github.com/oguya/onadata/blob/dockerize-onadata/docker/Hosting-apps.md>`_.

Docker
------

Install `Docker <https://www.docker.com/get-docker>`_ and `Docker Compose <https://docs.docker.com/compose/>`_.

.. code-block:: sh

    docker-compose up

    # create super user
    # -----------------
    docker exec -it onadata_web_1 bash

    # activate virtual envirenment
    source /srv/.virtualenv/bin/activate

    python manage.py createsuperuser

It should be accessible via http://localhost:8000. The settings are in
`onadata/settings/docker.py <onadata/settings/docker.py>`_.

On registration check the console for the activation links, the default email
backend is ``django.core.mail.backends.console.EmailBackend``. See
`Django Docs <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.11/topics/email/>`_ for details.

Contributing
------------

If you would like to contribute code please read
`Contributing Code to Ona Data <https://github.com/onaio/onadata/wiki/Contributing-Code-to-OnaData>`_.

Edit top level requirements in the file `requirements/base.in <requirements/base.in>`_. Use
 `pip-compile <https://github.com/nvie/pip-tools>`_ to update `requirements/base.pip <requirements/base.pip>`_.
 You will need to update `requirements.pip` and set `lxml==3.6.0`, for some unknown reason `pip-compile` seems to
 pick a lower version of lxml when `openpyxl` requires `lxml>=3.3.4`.

.. code-block:: sh

    pip-compile --output-file requirements/base.pip requirements/base.in

Code Structure
--------------

* **api** - This app provides the API functionality mostly made up of viewsets

* **logger** - This app serves XForms to and receives submissions from
  ODK Collect and Enketo.

* **viewer** - This app provides a csv and xls export of the data stored in
  logger. This app uses a data dictionary as produced by pyxform. It also
  provides a map and single survey view.

* **main** - This app is the glue that brings logger and viewer
  together.

Localization
------------

To generate a locale from scratch (ex. Spanish)

.. code-block:: sh

    django-admin.py makemessages -l es -e py,html,email,txt ;
    for app in {main,viewer} ; do cd onadata/apps/${app} && django-admin.py makemessages -d djangojs -l es && cd - ; done

To update PO files

.. code-block:: sh

    django-admin.py makemessages -a ;
    for app in {main,viewer} ; do cd onadata/apps/${app} && django-admin.py makemessages -d djangojs -a && cd - ; done

To compile MO files and update live translations

.. code-block:: sh

    django-admin.py compilemessages ;
    for app in {main,viewer} ; do cd onadata/apps/${app} && django-admin.py compilemessages && cd - ; done

Api Documentation
-----------------

Generate the API documentation and serve via Django using:

.. code-block:: sh

    cd docs
    make html
    python manage.py collectstatic

Generate sphinx docs for new code using
`autodoc <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/invocation.html#invocation-of-sphinx-apidoc>`_.

Run sphinx in autobuild mode using:

.. code-block:: sh

    sphinx-autobuild docs docs/_build/html

Requires sphinx-autobuild, install with ``pip install sphinx-autobuild``.


Django Debug Toolbar
--------------------

* `$ pip install django-debug-toolbar`
* Use/see `onadata/settings/debug_toolbar_settings/py`
* Access api endpoint on the browser and use `.debug` as the format extension e.g `/api/v1/projects.debug`

Upgrading existing installation to django 1.9+
----------------------------------------------

**Requirements**

* Postgres 9.4 or higher
* xcode-select version 2343 or higher

**Upgrading from a pervious Ona setup**
Ensure you upgrade all your pip requirements using the following command:

.. code-block:: sh

    pip install -r requirements/base.pip

Fake initial migration of `guardian`, `django_digest`, `registration`. Migrate `contenttypes` app first.

.. code-block:: sh

    python manage.py migrate contenttypes
    python manage.py migrate --fake-initial django_digest
    python manage.py migrate --fake-initial guardian
    python manage.py migrate --fake-initial registration
    python manage.py migrate


**Major django changes affecting Ona**
* The DATABASES settings key depricates the use of the *autocommit* setting in the *OPTIONS* dictionary.
